Graphical User Interfaces do not only to display information, they convey
information. Interface elements have a meaning of their own and this meaning 
alters the user's perception on the information displayed, for better or for 
worse. A flexible interface design system means the designer can add more 
meaning to the information. Features like multiple states and transitions 
extend this capacity to the point where the designer's creativity is the limit.

As the application matures the number of elments in the interface will grow.
These elements will be grouped by some common property or prupose. Functions to
deal with these groups as a unit are also going to be created. This is not an
unique process and anyone creating a GUI from scratch would go through it. 
These groups and the functions that deal with them is what is commonly know as 
"widgets". Widgets work as a small application inside our own.

In order to work a widget needs access to the drawing device to request that
the primitive objects that conform it be drawn. Most widgets will want to
interact with their environment, thus they need to be familiar with the Event
loop managing the application. As we would do with a plain interface, the 
widget will register callbacks for its own functions that deal with events in
the primitive objects that conform it.

..  image:: img/graphical_application_components_widget.png
    :width: 85%
    :align: center

In order to be possible for the rest of the application to interact effectively
with a widget it has to provide the Event loop with new signal types 
representing abstracted version of its interface signals. It basically 
intercepts what would be otherwise normal interface signals and (sometimes)
replace them with its own abstracted versions.

In general terms, a developer implementing a widget from the scratch would have
to program functions to:

* Manipulate the canvas primitives to draw the widget.
* Register new signal types to emit as a widget.
* Display information and retreive changes.
* Handle events ocurring in the environment that affect it.
* Handle events ocurring on its primitives.

Depending on the complexity of the widgets, the amount of functions represented
by the last item can become quite large.
