Frequently asked questions
--------------------------

This is a list of questions you can expect based on past presentations
related to enlightenment. Yes most of these questions are in the faq on
the website, but we all know how many end users read that before asking
questions.

Is Enlightenment development dead?

	No, enlightenment has been in constant development since it's inception.
	We did not release a window manager for 3 years, because it was not a
	priority that the current developers wanted to spend their limited time
	on. Kim Woelders stepped up and made extensive improvements that
	called for new releases.

How many active developers are there?

	There are 10 developers making regular commits, and 42 developers with
	CVS access.

How active is CVS (average time between cvs commits)?

	Approximately 1.58 hours between commits. This number is slightly on
	the high side because of an issue with the commit bot.

How long until DR17?

	No time estimates are given because the code is developed in spare
	time only. Without a schedule of regular working hours, development
	time is impossible to estimate.

Why is there so much bloat in E?

	Bloat? What bloat? Most claims of bloat in E are from '97 or '98, at
	which time Enlightenment really pushed the boundaries of the hardware.
	These days, E could be considered one of the lighter environments out
	there, and will happily run on old pentium, or pre-G3 PPC class
	hardware.

Why are you making ANOTHER wm like gnome or kde?

	Enlightenment pre-dates gnome and kde. It was originally used by gnome
	as the default window manager. Until recently, Enlightenment focused
	solely on window management. While there will be some overlap between
	the EFL and the other environments, we aim to work with their
	applications and environments as much as possible.

How fast will the new e apps work?

	This will depend on the application to a large degree. The overall
	goal is to make the libraries as fast and flexible as possible, so that
	apps can target their specific platform.

How much memory or cpu will the libs use?

	As little as possible to accomplish the necessary functionality. At
	this point, all of the core libraries can run fit into about 1.1 MB of
	storage. At runtime, the memory use varies depending on architecture
	and application, but demonstrations have shown the libraries being
	used on devices with minimal memory.

Where do the libs run (portability)?

	Currently tested platforms include: Linux (x86, powerpc, ARM, Sparc),
	Solaris, and Mac OS X. Some libraries have been tested on Windows 2000
	and CE. Most POSIX compatible environments should be easily ported to.

Why are you redoing a lot of work being done in fd.o?

	We're not. The freedesktop group was formed to specify ways that
	applications and libraries can communicate through X. We are making
	use of these standards where ever it is technically reasonable. In
	fact, our abstractions may help the fd.o group, as standards groups
	often require at least 2 separate implementations of a proposal
	before it is accepted as a standard.
